Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, learns about local efforts to promote ecological progress while visiting an intelligent management center in the Wuyishan National Park in Nanping City, Fujian Province, March 22, 2021. Xi Jinping on Monday arrived in Fujian Province for inspection. Photo: Xinhua Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, on Monday arrived in east China's Fujian Province for inspection.Xi visited an intelligent management center in the Wuyishan National Park, an eco-friendly tea garden, and a park dedicated to Zhu Xi, a renowned Chinese philosopher in the 12th century, in Nanping City on Monday afternoon.He learned about local efforts to promote ecological progress, develop the tea industry, and pass on traditional culture.

Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, waves to tourists while visiting a park dedicated to Zhu Xi, a renowned Chinese philosopher in the 12th century, in Nanping City, Fujian Province, March 22, 2021. Xi Jinping on Monday arrived in Fujian Province for inspection. Photo:Xinhua

Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, learns about local efforts to develop the tea industry while visiting an eco-friendly tea garden in Nanping City, Fujian Province, March 22, 2021. Xi Jinping on Monday arrived in Fujian Province for inspection. Photo: Xinhua

Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, learns about local efforts to pass on traditional culture while visiting a park dedicated to Zhu Xi, a renowned Chinese philosopher in the 12th century, in Nanping City, Fujian Province, March 22, 2021. Xi Jinping on Monday arrived in Fujian Province for inspection. Photo: Xinhua

Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, learns about local efforts to develop the tea industry while visiting an eco-friendly tea garden in Nanping City, Fujian Province, March 22, 2021. Xi Jinping on Monday arrived in Fujian Province for inspection. Photo: Xinhua

Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, inspects local ecological and environmental protection work along Jiuqu River in Nanping City, Fujian Province, March 22, 2021. Xi Jinping on Monday arrived in Fujian Province for inspection. Photo: Xinhua