France, Belgium and Poland on Saturday tightened curbs as coronavirus cases surged in Europe while the Philippines prepared for a giant lockdown and Chile confined over 80 percent of its population.

French President Emmanuel Macron attends a European Union (EU) summit over video conference with French minister for European affairs Clement Beaune (L) at the Elysee Palace in Paris, on March 25. Photo: VCGFrance has admitted that the situation is "critical" and added three more departments to the 16 already under tight restrictions. Around 20 million people in France, including those in the greater Paris region, are classed as living in high-infection zones. They are not allowed to travel further than 10 kilometers from their home unless they have an essential reason.Checks at train stations, airports and toll-paying motorways began Saturday to enforce the travel restrictions."About 10 police teams have been deployed against two in normal times" in Paris' busy Montparnasse station, a police officer told AFP, adding that these numbers would be increased during busy hours.Only shops selling food, and book and music stores are open and classrooms in high schools are only running at half the capacity. Daily cases in France have nearly doubled since the start of March and there have been more than 200,000 new cases every week.Belgium meanwhile closed all businesses involving non-medical physical contact such as hairdressers for four weeks from Saturday. Shops offering "nonessential" services can only receive clients with appointments. Poland closed creches, playgrounds, furniture and DIY stores, as well as beauty salons and barber shops. Social distancing in churches in the predominantly Catholic nation has also been tightened with one person allowed in every 20 square meters instead of 15 square meters earlier. The Philippines announced Saturday that more than 24 million people in and around Manila will go into lockdown next week."The virus is the enemy, not the government," presidential spokesman Harry Roque said."While we're at home we expect the infection rates to slow."From Monday, people will have to work from home unless they are considered essential workers, and public transport will be halted. All mass gatherings will be banned, night-time curfews from 6:00 pm to 5:00 am will be enforced and nonessential businesses will be shut.Chile also started a new and strict lockdown for more than 80 percent of its population, with shopping trips for even basic products banned during weekends.The US is the worst-affected country with 548,089 deaths followed by Brazil with 307,112 fatalities, Mexico with 200,862, India with 161,240 and Britain with 126,515 deaths.  Health officials have rolled out more than 510 million  vaccine doses globally, but with big gaps between countries.