The first exhibition themed on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Communist Party of China of (CPC) will kick off at the Capital Museum in Beijing on Wednesday. A total of 280 exhibits, including photos and historical items, will be displayed, showing the revolutionary process from the establishment of the CPC in 1921 to the founding of the People’s Republic of China in 1949. Photos: Li Hao/GTThe first exhibition themed around the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Communist Party of China (CPC) will open at the Capital Museum in Beijing on Wednesday. The exhibition has been prepared by 10 museums across China including the Shanghai Revolution Museum, Hebei Museum and Beijing Archives Museum.A total of 280 items will be displayed, showing significant moments since the birth of the CPC in 1921, including the Agrarian Revolutionary War (1927-37), the War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression (1931-45) and the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949.The exhibition also uses digital and multimedia interactive methods, aiming to provide a more vivid experience for visitors. "I think it is very meaningful to see such an exhibition because I can deeply understand the difficulties that China faced 100 years ago through the pictures, historical materials and objects on display. It seems that every item carries the special significance of that era," Ding Dock, a 28-year-old visitor who participated in a preview of the exhibition on Tuesday, told the Global Times.

The first exhibition themed on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Communist Party of China of (CPC) will kick off at the Capital Museum in Beijing on Wednesday. A total of 280 exhibits, including photos and historical items, will be displayed, showing the revolutionary process from the establishment of the CPC in 1921 to the founding of the People’s Republic of China in 1949. Photos: Li Hao/GTShe said one of the most impressive parts of the exhibition is the "shoes wall," which tells the story of a Chinese woman named Chen Fagu who suggested that her husband join the Red Army of the CPC. Later her husband's army was ordered to go to the north of China and she could not receive any messages from him, but Chen still believed that he would return safely, so she insisted on making straw sandals for him every year until her death at the age of 105. She waited for her husband for 75 years, and was honored as "China's first military spouse.""I could feel that Chen's trust was not only about her husband, but also her confidence in the success of the war," Ding noted.Another visitor who wished to remain anonymous told the Global Times that he thought the exhibition could be used as patriotic education for younger generations and let them know more about their country's history. "During the COVID-19 pandemic crisis, we Chinese people could fight and overcome the virus because the quality of perseverance is always flowing in our blood," he said.