Photo: XinhuaThe Chinese government is formulating countermeasures against the EU, which plans to sanction Chinese officials over Xinjiang, and some EU institutions that have been spearheading accusations against China's Xinjiang policies will bear the brunt of the countermeasures, and some individuals in EU countries who have behaved badly will not escape punishment, sources close to the matter told the Global Times in an exclusive interview on Friday.The sources said that if the EU insists on going its own way, China will double its reciprocal countermeasures. The planned EU sanctions will consist of travel bans and asset freezes against four Chinese officials and one entity, and foreign ministers of EU countries may formally approve the sanctions on Monday, some EU officials revealed.The so-called "genocide" in Xinjiang is nothing but a rumor with ulterior motives, and if there had been "genocide" in Xinjiang, would the Uygur population in Xinjiang have more than doubled from 5.55 million to more than 12.7 million in the past 40 years, and would more than 1,200 people from over 100 countries turn a blind eye during their visits to Xinjiang in the past two years? the sources asked. China welcomes everyone to Xinjiang, no matter what country they are from, including EU diplomats in China, the sources said, adding that the door of Xinjiang will remain open. As to why EU diplomats put off visits for various reasons, the sources said that the answer was simple: "Because they dare not look at the real Xinjiang, which is completely different from what they imagine."They would rather believe the lies of a few people than listen to the common aspirations of more than 25 million people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang, which only proves that they do not care about the truth. Instead, they are keen on political manipulation and attempt to create so-called Xinjiang issues to undermine the security and stability in Xinjiang and hinder China's development and growth, the sources said. A person should know himself, so does a country. "Genocide" is a label that can never be put on China. In contrast, Germany which initiated the sanctions on China has had so many misdeeds that constitute genocide with ironclad evidence, sources said. How dare European countries think they are qualified to accuse China as "teachers?"  Why don't they sanction themselves? German Nazis conducted a large-scale planned massacre of Jews during World War II and 6 million died in the Holocaust; German colonists in 1904 slaughtered numerous Namibians to crack down on people's uprising and killed more than 100,000 natives as of 1908. Other European countries also had infamous misdeeds in their colonial histories. Europe, which sees itself as a "teacher of human rights," is zealous to point at other countries' affairs with a condescending attitude, and has caused countless unrests and tragedies worldwide, and Libya is just one of the examples, according to sources. Those in Europe were wrong to spread lies on Xinjiang, and they compound the mistake by coercing China on the issue. It is impolite not to return what one receives, and if the EU insists on its wrong way, China will take resolute, strong and just countermeasures.   Global Times