Pakistani Ambassador to China Moin ul Haque delivers a speech via video before the show. Photo: Dong Feng/Global TimesA grand puppet show was held at the China Puppet Theatre in Beijing on Sunday, World Puppetry Day, to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Pakistan.The show was also held to celebrate China-Pakistan civilizational and cultural heritage through puppets and related art.Pakistani Ambassador to China, Moin ul Haque, said that Pakistan-China iron brotherhood friendship is based on sharing mutual respect, understanding, trust and cooperation. "Looking to the future, Pakistan and China have forged a community of shared future. Long live Pakistan-China friendship," he said. Right before the show started, the audience from both countries witnessed remotely the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the China Puppet Art Theatre and the Rafi Peer Art Theatre. In the future there will be more exchanges and cooperation in puppet art between the two countries.Rafi Peer Art Theatre is Pakistan's top puppet theatre. Established in Lahore in 1978, Rafi Peer Art Theatre has not only been the first Pakistani theater company to perform modern puppet shows, but also has hosted 30 international puppet festivals. The Rafi Peer Theater Workshop has served as a nucleus of the entire trend of contemporary puppetry in Pakistan. 

The China Puppet Art Theatre and the Rafi Peer Art Theatre exchange the top three puppet characters. Photo: Dong Feng/Global TimesThe two puppet theaters exchanged the top three puppet characters in their respective museums.The China Puppet Theatre shared with its new partner classic puppet roles, including the Monkey King, a Chinese girl and Tinker Bell, also known as Xiao Ding Dang. The Rafi Peer Art Theatre reciprocated the gesture by sharing some of its own Pakistani characters. These puppets depict popular characters in their respective tradition and myths. The exchange of puppets is also an exchange between the cultures of the two countries.Other diplomatic delegations were present at the show, including Malaysian Ambassador to China, Raja Nushirwan Zainal Abidin, Cambodian Ambassador to China, Khek Cai Mealy Sysoda, and Himalchuli Gurung, cultural program officer of UNESCO Representative Office in China. Puppets play an important role in Pakistan and are a principal part of folk tradition. This show was also the climax of the more than 100 events organized for the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Pakistan and China.