Japan has decided to stage the 2021 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics without overseas spectators due to public concern about COVID-19, two government sources with knowledge of the matter told Reuters on Wednesday.

The Tokyo 2020 Olympic flame being displayed outside Fukushima railway station in Fukushima Prefecture. The starting ceremony for the Olympic torch relay, which will begin on March 25, 2021, will likely be held without spectators, a Japanese newspaper reported on March 9, but fans will still be able to line the route. Photo: VCGThe Olympics, postponed by a year because of the pandemic, are scheduled for July 23 to August 8 and the Paralympics from August 24 to September 5. Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga has said a decision on spectators would be made by the end of March. The government has concluded that welcoming fans from abroad would not be possible given public concern about the coronavirus and the detection of more contagious variants in many countries, the people said, declining to be identified because the information is not public.Kyodo News, which reported the decision on Tuesday, said the opening ceremony of the torch relay on March 25 would also take place without spectators."The organizing committee has decided it is essential to hold the ceremony in the northeastern prefecture of Fukushima behind closed doors, only permitting participants and invitees to  take part in the event, to avoid large crowds forming amid the pandemic," Kyodo said, quoting the officials.The Tokyo organizing committee said a decision would be made based on "factors including the state of infections in Japan and other countries, possible epidemic-prevention measures, and expert scientific advice." Tokyo 2020 President Seiko Hashimoto has said she wants a decision made on before the start of the torch relay on whether to allow overseas spectators.Sebastian Coe, the man behind the 2012 London Olympics which enjoyed sellout crowds, and now president of World Athletics, said the goal has always been to ensure "the best possible games for the athletes and having full stadiums of passionate people," preferably with a "good global presence."Figures released in December 2020 had projected ticket sales would contribute $800 million for the Tokyo organizing committee, or about 12 percent of its budget. Local ticket sales have typically accounted for 70-80 percent of ticket sales at past Olympics. Most Japanese people do not want international visitors to attend the Tokyo Olympics amid fears that a large influx could spark a resurgence of coronavirus infections, a Yomiuri newspaper poll showed this week. The survey showed 77 percent of respondents were against allowing foreign fans to attend, versus 18 percent in favor. Some 48 percent said they were against allowing any spectators into venues.