Russian Ambassador to China Andrey Denisov delivers a speech during the book launch. Photo: Dong Feng/Global Times
A new book was released in memory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression (the War of Resistance) at Beijing Jintai Art Museum in Chaoyang district on Tuesday. Titled "They Will Be Remembered Forever by Russia and China," the book tells the history of the War of Resistance and the assistance provided by the Soviet Union to China during that time. The book was compiled by the staff of the Russian Embassy in China and was released by Russian Ambassador to China Andrey Denisov. The attendees watched a video clip, which documented difference phases of the War of Resistance. "In compiling this book, we used precious materials from Russian archives and libraries, memoirs of event participants, and precious photographic materials from those years. The heroic deeds of Soviet soldiers and officers made an immortal contribution. They risked their lives to fight with the Chinese people to get rid of the Japanese invaders," said Ambassador Denisov.


Russian ambassador to China Andrey Denisov awards Yuan Xikun, member of the Standing Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and director of the Beijing Jintai Art Museum, the medal of "Memorial to the Heroes of the Motherland" on Tuesday in Beijing. Photo: Dong Feng/Global Times
According to the statistics of the military commemorative work representative office established by the Russian Ministry of Defense in China, there are 83 memorial sites for the martyrs of Soviet aid to China in the Chinese mainland. In addition to sending troops to Northeast China, the Soviet Union sent 3,665 military experts to China from 1937-41, including 2,500 pilots and technicians.The book is more than 170 pages, and in both Russian and Chinese. It refers to documents about Soviet troops dispatching troops to Northeast China that have never been made public before, and cites some little-known facts about the Soviet Union and China's cooperation during the War of Resistance. Li Hui, the special representative of the Chinese government for Eurasian Affairs and former Chinese ambassador to Russia, said in a congratulatory letter for the book's release that the Chinese people value the support and assistance provided by the Soviet Union during the War of Resistance and deeply cherish the memory of the Soviet army's sacrifices. All over China, the meticulous maintenance of Soviet martyrs' monuments and cemeteries is the best proof of this.At the book release, according to Order No. 624 of the Russian Minister of Defense on August 18, 2020, Denisov awarded Yuan Xikun, a member of the Standing Committee of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and director of the Beijing Jintai Art Museum, the medal of "Memorial to the Heroes of the Motherland."Right before the book release session, participants held one minute of silence to mourn the Soviet volunteer pilots who died in the War of Resistance, and presented flowers to the "Soviet Flying Eagle" sculpture created by the famous Chinese sculptor Yuan.

Guests and teenagers from China and Russia pose for pictures in front of the sculpture "Soviet Flying Eagle," which commemorates the Soviet air force pilots during the War of Resistance. Photo: Dong Feng/Global Times
In September 2015, to commemorate the victory of the World Anti-Fascist War and the 70th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War, Yuan was invited to create the sculpture "Soviet Flying Eagle" based on the pilots of the Soviet-aided Air Force and donated it to the Russian Embassy in China. The sculpture is permanently placed in Chaoyang Park, Beijing. The sculpture shows a Soviet pilot ready to fight for justice.