Carrie Lam File photo:XinhuaRight after China's top legislature on Thursday adopted a decision on improving the electoral system of Hong Kong, the city's chief executive Carrie Lam voiced "staunch support for and sincere gratitude" for such a decision, saying that the reform is not to "retrogress" as some said, but to fix loopholes in the previous system. The National People's Congress, China's top legislature, on Thursday adopted a decision on improving the electoral system of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. The decision was passed by an overwhelming majority vote at the fourth session of the 13th NPC.Lam said on a Thursday afternoon that she will explain to Hong Kong residents that the central government's decision is justified, and also made in accordance with Hong Kong's situation. She said that in recent years, there have been certain politicians with ulterior purposes who gained posts in the Hong Kong government by exploiting the loopholes in the electoral system. Yet instead of assisting government's work, those politicians conducted sabotage, or even assisted foreign forces to interfere in Hong Kong's affairs, said Lam, noting that she will explain the situation to Hong Kong residents.She said the reform is not a retrogress, but to fix loopholes in the electoral system. When asked about the outside world's possible reaction to the NPC's decision, Lam said that it is reckless interference into other country's domestic affairs, and 70 countries have extended support to China on its Hong Kong policy at UN Human Rights Council.When asked if the reform means that there will be no opposition in the LegCo, Lam said that government proposals also have their shortcomings, and lawmakers should make constructive suggestions. She explained that the reform does not mean there cannot be different voices. Lam said the reform on LegCo is not to kick out people with certain political propositions; rather, it is to include more representatives, and to rely on Hong Kong's interests as a whole. The chief executive said that the review committee is not to select candidates objectively, but according to mechanisms. The current system gives call to the chairman of the electoral committee only, which invites questions.She said that international society also has such roles as banning anti-government people from working in government. Patriots governing Hong Kong does not necessarily mean applauding the Chinese Communist Party, but it has to accept and respect the fact that the Chinese government is led by the CPC, according to Lam, saying that she is not a Party member, but acknowledges China's sovereignty over Hong Kong.