The 81st Pakistan Day was observed on Tuesday with traditional fervor and zeal at the Pakistani Embassy in Beijing, where guests were hosted and enjoyed entertainment from children singing songs in tribute. 

Pakistani Ambassador to China Moin ul Haque at the national flag hoisting ceremony on Tuesday at the Pakistani Embassy in Beijing Photos: Li Hao/GTThrough the national flag hoisting ceremony, Pakistani Ambassador to China Moin ul Haque marked Pakistan's National Day. Similar flag hoisting ceremonies were also held at Pakistani consulates in Chengdu, Guangzhou, Hong Kong and Shanghai.Haque stressed that 2021 marks Pakistan and China's commemoration of the establishment of bilateral ties' 70th anniversary. It was a very important milestone for the two countries, not only the celebration of the fortified brotherhood that exists between the two countries but also leads the way forward for ever-increasing cooperation in diverse fields.He thanked the Chinese leadership and the government for supporting Pakistan during the COVID-19 pandemic and sending relief goods and vaccines to help fight the pandemic. 

Twitter screenshot"As a diplomat, I stayed twice in #Pakistan for over 8 years. Pakistan has won my heart. May I wish you a happy #PakistanDay! Chin-Pakistan dosti zindabad!" Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian posted in his Twitter handle. On Monday, Habib Bank, also known as HBL, the largest bank in Pakistan, opened its branch in Beijing. Cheng Wei, country manager of HBL Beijing Branch, told the Global Times on Tuesday that HBL has facilitated around $6 billion for different projects under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).

Pakistani Ambassador to China Moin ul Haque at the national flag hoisting ceremony on Tuesday at the Pakistani Embassy in BeijingDuring his speech, Haque congratulated Cheng for the opening of the Beijing branch. "Our two countries now have a bilateral currency exchange agreement with Pakistan worth 20 billion yuan ($3.07 billion)," Cheng said. HBL was the first Pakistani bank to open a branch in China in 2017 and was allowed to handle end-to-end Chinese yuan transactions.The ceremony started with a recitation from the Holy Quran. Messages from the Pakistani President and Prime Minister were also read.In his address, Haque paid rich tribute to the leadership of Pakistan's Movement, highlighting the importance of March 23, 1940. "It was the day when Muslims of South Asia, under the dynamic leadership of Quaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah resolved to create a separate homeland for themselves where they could live in accordance with their beliefs, traditions and culture," he said. The ambassador also expressed solidarity with the people of India's illegally occupied Jammu & Kashmir regions and reiterated Pakistan's resolve to continue its moral, political and diplomatic support for the just Kashmiri cause.