Hong Kong singer Chung Chun-to. Photo: Weibo More than 10 Hong Kong entertainers recently recorded short videos to show their firm patriotic belief in the principle that the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region should be governed by patriotic officials.The particular momentum that may have encouraged such voices was a decision to improve the electoral system of Hong Kong by developing the short boards in the region's governance, which received massive support by Chinese lawmakers at the closure of the Fourth Session of the 13th National People's Congress (NPC), China's top legislature. The group of celebrities, including well-known Hong Kong film director Wong Jing, versatile TV host Chan Pak Cheung, actress Yung Hung and Li Choi-wa, who made a deep impression on TV viewers as Ellie on the much discussed 2011 TV drama Home Temptation. "Through what we have seen and experienced in the past few years in Hong Kong, I believe deeply that only people who love China and love Hong Kong [SAR] can take essential care of the future development of Hong Kong," Wong emphasized in a taped speech. "I was born and raised in Hong Kong and believe firmly that Hong Kong is a part of China. Letting it be governed by people who love our country and love Hong Kong, this is the key to achieving the stability and prosperity which we are looking for," said Hong Kong singer Chung Chun-to, also known by his stage name Kenny Bee, in a short video he filmed that got reposted on China's Twitter-like Sina Weibo. This is not the first time that Chung has taken a patriotic stance; in fact, Chung alongside acclaimed celebrities Tam Wing-lun and Leung Ka-fai are seen as three keen patriotic advocates. Some netizens on Sina Weibo shared the same patriotic emotions with the group of Hong Kong stars, saying they were touched and wanted to support them because they have true respect for the country.Some others said they reckon such patriotic attitudes of people in the entertainment industry are important and can be influential in a good way because celebrities can significantly influence public opinion. "Don't forget there are some younger celebrities like Ouyang Nana and Jackson Wang. They also love our country very much," said another netizen, emphasizing how young idols from Hong Kong and Taiwan can influence their generation to embrace and love the country. Ouyang Nana, for instance, has been a good figure from the island of Taiwan who has made patriotic statements many times even while being attacked by some Taiwan media outlets, who have accused her of turning into a "member of the Communist Party of China."