When Britain's children return to school next week as the country eases its third lockdown, 6-year-old Daniel Meredith will not be joining his friends but will remain shut indoors with no end date in sight.Daniel has complex medical conditions which could make a COVID-19 infection fatal but there is no vaccine available for children yet, leaving thousands of families with little option but to continue taking precautions.

Elementary schools in the UK postpone the start of school. Photo: VCG"We really do feel like the forgotten people," Daniel's mother Sara Meredith, told Reuters."Our lives are based around fear."Britain, which has launched one of the world's fastest vaccine roll-outs, has prioritized inoculations for clinically vulnerable adults. But with pediatric trials only just beginning, vulnerable children could have a long wait ahead.Disabilities charity Contact said 61,800 children in Britain were at high risk of complications from COVID-19.Some have been confined to their homes since before the first lockdown began in March 2020.The pandemic has claimed more than 123,000 lives in Britain, one of the world's worst-hit countries. But with over 20 million people now inoculated, restrictions could begin to ease later in March.Family reunions are not on the cards for Daniel, however.Meredith, 40, said her son missed his grown-up sisters and carers, who have been unable to visit them in Walsall, central England, for a year."This has had a massive impact on him. He doesn't understand about COVID[-19]. He sees it as nobody wants him," she said.The lockdown has been particularly trying for parents of children requiring continual care like Daniel, whose fluid levels need to be managed day and night.Despondent with exhaustion, Meredith said the family used to get help from paid carers so she and her husband could rest during the day, but it was now too risky to have them in the house.Pediatric trialsThe University of Oxford said it was beginning the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine trials on children aged 6 and above in a study that will run until September 2022, but results could be available as early as 2021.Pfizer and BioNTech are already evaluating results from vaccine trials on 12- to 15-year-olds. Studies in over-fives are set for the coming months and under-fives later in 2021.The British government says most children are unlikely to fall ill from COVID-19, but in very exceptional circumstances doctors may give a vaccine "off-license" to high-risk teenagers. But parents who have tried to get their children immunized said they had been given the runaround. London company director Yvonne Woodford has battled for weeks to get a vaccine for her 13-year-old daughter Katherine, who has Down's syndrome and a respiratory condition requiring her to use a ventilator at night. She said Katherine's pediatrician had said she should get the jab and their local GP could administer it. But their GP, who initially also assumed he could give the vaccine, later informed her he was not authorized.In a desperate bid to cut through the red tape, Woodford took Katherine to her own vaccination appointment, armed with the pediatrician's letter.The center told her they would be shut down if they vaccinated Katherine.Woodford is now pushing to get the issue raised in parliament.The health department could not immediately say who, if anyone was authorized to give the vaccine "off-license." Britain's National Health Service (NHS) and pediatric body could also not shed any light on this.'Very worrying'Lockdown has not only impacted Katherine's schooling, but also her health because of an imposed sedentary lifestyle. "We've shut down as much as we possibly can. We don't see anyone," said Woodford, who has to keep an all-night vigil by her daughter's bed several times a week after cutting back on paid carers. The situation has also impacted her two sons who have remained largely cooped up indoors even when restrictions have been eased."It's very worrying and absolutely exhausting," Woodford said. "How long can you expect families to go on like this?"Her frustrations are shared by Julie Nixon, a mother-of-six who also fosters three boys with severe learning disabilities and complex medical conditions at her home on the south coast. Doctors say the oldest, James, would not survive COVID-19."Until he has his vaccine our life can't resume. We're absolutely desperate for it," said Nixon, 53, who has been honored by the Queen for her work in caring for children with disabilities.She worries about the long-term impact on the physical health of her foster sons, who have missed important medical appointments and physiotherapy normally provided by their school.James has outgrown his spinal jacket, but Nixon cannot risk taking him to hospital to get a new one fitted.She has also kept her own school-age children off school for fear that they could bring the virus home."They have seen no friends, they have not been out and about, and I worry about their mental health," Nixon said."Everyone in Britain is hanging on for the light at the end of the tunnel now, but there's no light for us yet."