UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres "remains deeply concerned" that "foreign elements" continue to operate in Libya, he wrote in a report to the Security Council.

Secretary-General Antonio Guterres conducts press stakeout dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the Syrian conflict at UN Headquarters. During his remarks he acknowledged failure by Security Council and UN to help resolve this conflict. Photo: VCGThe document, obtained by AFP and discussed Wednesday by Council members, notes some mercenaries have moved position, but considers the action insufficient.It indicates that foreign forces left the center and west of the coastal city of Sirte on February 28 to Wadi Harawa, about 50 kilometers east, to help secure the city and allow the reopening of the Al-Ghardabiya airport. But "there has reportedly been no reduction of foreign forces or their activities in central Libya," Guterres said in his report. Oil-rich Libya descended into chaos after former leader Moamer Kadhafi was toppled and killed in a 2011 NATO-backed uprising, resulting in multiple forces vying for power.The UN had estimated in December 2020 that 20,000 foreign troops and mercenaries were active in Libya."I reiterate my call on all national, regional and international actors to respect the provisions of the cease-fire agreement in order to ensure its full implementation without delay. This includes complete and unconditional respect for and compliance with the United Nations arms embargo," Guterres wrote.Several previous UN reports - one of which called the arms embargo "totally ineffective" - have highlighted the presence in Libya of Russian, Chadian, Sudanese and Syrian mercenaries, among others, as well as Turkish military units."Their withdrawal from Libya will go a long way in reconstituting the unity and sovereignty of the country and healing the deep wounds caused by many years of internal strife, active conflict and foreign interference," its new envoy for Libya, Jan Kubis, told the Security Council. In his report Guterres details his proposal for a gradual deployment of a cease-fire observation mission and the departure of mercenaries and foreign troops.However, he does not specify the number of observers, who will be unarmed civilians in agreement with the Libyan parties. The observers must include women and young people, Kubis stated. Initially the observers, integrated into the UN Mission in Libya, will focus on the coastal road, then extend their activities to a triangle between Abu Grein, Bin Jawad and Sawknah before a possible third stage extended to other locations. "The reopening of the coastal road remains a critical step for the steady and sustainable, if gradual implementation of the Cease-fire Agreement" reached in October 2020, noted Kubis. He welcomed the fact that "significant progress has been made on clearing the coastal road connecting Misrata with eastern Libya from explosive remnants of war." At its last meeting in Sirte on March 15, the joint military commission with representatives from the east and west agreed to open the road within 15 days, the envoy said. Several countries also called for mercenaries to leave.