A full house of senior diplomats and officials from China and Pakistan gathered at a new book launching ceremony at the Embassy of Pakistan in Beijing on Monday. The author of the book Garlands of Love, China's veteran diplomat and former ambassador to Pakistan, was pleased to see his dream for a collection of his poems and articles had come true. 

Lu Shulin, the author of the new book "Garlands of Love," autographs books for his readers after the book launching ceremony. Photo: Dong Feng/GTIn his address, Lu said that years ago he dreamed to see his works collected into a book, now his dreams come true. He wished bilateral friendship to be evergreen, saying he loved Pakistan as his second home in Urdu. Embellished with historical pictures and stories of seven decades of Pakistan-China friendship, the book aims to pay tribute to the heroes of the Pakistan-China friendship, record significant milestones of bilateral ties and bequeath the finest traditions of the Pakistan-China friendship to the younger generations of the two countries.Before working at the Chinese Embassy and Consulate in Pakistan and China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Lu studied Urdu, the national language of Pakistan, at the University of Karachi in Pakistan. He has successively served as an ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago and Pakistan.

Pakistani Ambassador to China Moin ul Haque addresses attendees to the book launch ceremony at the Embassy of Pakistan in Beijing on Monday. Photo: Dong Feng/GTPakistani Ambassador to China Moin ul Haque said that the book's name not only describes a personal attachment to Pakistan but also illustrates strong emotions and love for the China-Pakistan friendship.  He highlighted that due to the efforts of distinguished diplomats like Lu, the Pakistan-China friendship has been strengthened and is finding new manifestations in ever-increasing political, economic and cultural engagements between the two countries. He said that Lu is a role model for the young diplomats of both Pakistan and China and that his contributions to bilateral friendship would remain a continuous source of inspiration for the peoples of both countries. He said that bilateral is time-tested and unique, based on mutual respect, trust, understanding, support, and cooperation. 

Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Nong Rong delivers a video address during the book launch ceremony at the Embassy of Pakistan in Beijing on Monday. Photo: Courtesy of Pakistan Embassy in BeijingIn his congratulatory video, Chinese Ambassador to Pakistan Nong Rong said that Ambassador Lu pushed China-Pakistan relations into the 21st century and made important contributions to initiation and development of the China-Pakistan friendship. After retirement, "with passion and original aspiration in his mind, he continues to devote himself to the noble cause of China-Pakistan friendship," Nong noted. Many Pakistani readers admire Lu's poetic talents and became his pen friends, which is still a favorite story, he said. This year marks the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Pakistan. The publication of ambassador Lu's collection of poems and essays is of special significance, Nong stressed. Deputy Chief of the Embassy of Pakistan in China Ahmed Farooq congratulated Lu for coming up with yet another masterpiece dedicated to the Pakistan-China friendship. Previously, You and Us - Stories of China and Pakistan - a book launched in late November 2015, as the editor-in-chief, Lu made efforts to collect, sort out and edit it.Briefly recalling Lu's diplomatic tenure for more than 30 years, Farooq said that "Ambassador Lu's diplomatic skills with his amazing enthusiasm about Pakistan and China have won him tremendous respect and recognition of him in the highest level in Pakistan."

President of China Pakistan Friendship Association Sha Zukang gives a speech at the book launch ceremony at the Embassy of Pakistan in Beijing on Monday. Photo: Dong Feng/GTSha Zukang, president of China Pakistan Friendship Association, said that Pakistan is the only country as China's all-weather strategic cooperative partner.The world is going through centenary changes; there are tremendous opportunities and risks. Enhancing China-Pakistan relations further, the purpose of which is full peace and development to rise, improve the welfare of the peoples of our two countries, Sha said. The relationship of China and Pakistan is not a conspiracy but an open, public state secret, he stressed.