Promotional material of New Generation Photo: Courtesy of Huace GroupThe third part of Chinese TV series New Generation, which focuses on stories of young members of the Communist Party of China (CPC), is about the dangerous tasks and the training of Chinese soldiers for explosive ordnance disposal (EOD), and it got a lot of compliments from viewers.The cast of the third part, including lead actor Dou Xiao and actress Deng Jiajia, visited a Chinese military camp on Sunday and shared their experience of filming the series with the soldiers. They also got closer to the real life of Chinese soldiers to create better works. The third part features a Chinese EOD soldier named Liu Xishi, played by Dou. It shows how the soldier went from being a freshman who didn't understand chemical equations that are important for bomb disposal to finally becoming a brilliant team leader.The series shows some of the real training, like threading six needles within 10 seconds, using mechanical arms to carry tomatoes and running for a long distance wearing 37-kilogram protection suits. Viewers can see the hardships these soldiers deal with and appreciate their sacrifices.

Promotional material of New Generation Photo: Courtesy of Huace GroupThe scenes touched audiences, especially young people. "This is one of the best military stories I have seen recently. I was moved by the EOD soldiers' brave and selfless spirit and I felt excited when watching the life in the military camp," Wan Qi, 28, told the Global Times on Tuesday.Actress Xi Meijuan, who plays Liu's mother, recited a famous poem "Shui shi zui keai de ren" (Who is the most lovable person?) written by Wei Wei about the Chinese People's Volunteers in the Korean War during the visit to the military camp to pay tribute to the Chinese soldiers. "Through this process, I realized the difficulty and greatness, sadness and pride of mothers of soldiers in real life. I want to salute all the Chinese soldiers who are on the front lines and their families," Xi said.Zhang Ting, director and also scriptwriter of the series, recalled stories he had heard, saying that wearing heavy equipment, EOD soldiers must put their hands into the soil and slowly remove the unstable mines, which can explode at any time.The 48-episode TV series produced by Huace Group has been airing since June on TV stations such as Beijing TV and Shenzhen TV, as well as some video platforms such as Youku.Besides EOD soldiers, the series also shows young CPC members in other industries, whose role is to contribute to establishing a better country.