Healthcare workers wheel a patient into a hospital in New York, the United States, Jan. 1, 2021.(Photo: Xinhua) The consumption spree in China during the May Day holiday has been wonderful. It is a slap in the face of the many rumormongers slandering China. It is also a display of the competitiveness of China's approach of governance. Meanwhile, the US is proud of the speed of its vaccination. Some US media have claimed that the US has achieved a come-from-behind pandemic victory over China. It has also been reported that New York will be ready to "fully open" on July 1. How shameless! About 40,000 to 50,000 people are infected with COVID-19 every day in the US and hundreds die from the disease on a daily basis. During the ongoing G7 summit, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and foreign ministers of US allies have engaged in attacking China for "human rights violations." I couldn't help but say that they are the most good-for-nothing elite since the end of WWII, because they have abandoned a basic sense of shame and do not seek truth based on fact.The coronavirus is brutal and the fight against it could be longer than expected. China's system will protect its people from the intrusion of this deadly virus, and we are zero tolerant of its appearance in China. But now the US is pleased that its daily infection number has decreased to the tens of thousands and its death toll has been reduced to a few hundred a day. The attention of the US is now turning to the economy and geopolitics.The highest human right - the right to life - has never been the top priority in the US. American leaders, please have some sense of shame. I recommend they do not release another report that criticizes China's human rights until they have gotten the pandemic under control and returned freedom and security of life to the American people. Before this, they do not have the qualifications to talk about human rights with China. Don't they understand that to forge iron, one must be strong? The author is editor-in-chief of the Global Times. opinion@globaltimes.com.cn