File photo taken in July, 2016 shows Chinese H-6K bomber patrolling islands and reefs including Huangyan Island in the South China Sea. (Xinhua/Liu Rui) China urged on Tuesday the Philippines to respect China's sovereignty. It also demanded the country stop taking actions that complicate the situation, after Philippine foreign minister made expletive-laced remarks against China."It has been proven that 'microphone diplomacy' cannot change facts, but can only undermine mutual trust. It is hoped that the relevant people in the Philippines will comply with basic etiquette and their identities when making remarks," Wang Wenbin, a spokesperson for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said on Tuesday.Philippine Foreign Affairs Secretary Teodoro Locsin on Monday posted on Twitter to demand China remove its ships at the Niu'e Jiao. The vessels concerned were fishing boats taking shelter from bad weather. "China, my friend, how politely can I put it? Let me see… O…GET THE F*CK OUT," Locsin tweeted on his personal account.Also on Monday, the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs issued a statement protesting against patrols by Chinese Coast Guard vessels in the waters off Huangyan Island."Huangyan Island is a Chinese territory, and the nearby sea is under China's jurisdiction," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang said on Tuesday. In late March, the Philippines hyped up Chinese boats taking refuge at the Niu'e Jiao, part of the Nansha Islands in the South China Sea. Just prior to Lucsin's discourteous remarks, the Philippines had conducted military exercises in the waters around Huangyan Island. Responding to the exercises, China's Foreign Ministry said the Philippines should "stop taking actions that complicate the situation and escalate disputes." "China remains our benefactor," Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte said in a televised briefing on Monday evening. "Just because we have a conflict with China doesn't mean to say that we have to be rude and disrespectful." On Tuesday, Locsin apologized for his remarks on Twitter to Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, and said he doesn't want to endanger his friendship with "the most elegant mind in diplomacy with manners to watch."According to Philippine media outlets, Locsin also personally apologized to Chinese Ambassador to the Philippines Huang Xilian."As Philippine President Duterte said, differences and contradictions on individual issues should not affect the friendship and cooperation between our two countries. There have also been important concessions reached on many occasions by the two," Wang said.China has always and will continue to work with the Philippines to properly resolve differences and promote cooperation through friendly consultations, provide assistance to the Philippines within its capacity in its fight against the pandemic and efforts to restore its economy, said the spokesperson. Duterte received his first dose of Sinopharm's vaccine against COVID-19 on Monday. Global Times